
QUICK START

To build, run the tests and install using the defaults, use the following
three steps:
    ./configure
    make
    make check
    sudo make install
If you wish to change the configuration, read the following two sections.


OVERVIEW OF THE BUILD SYSTEM

We at Klassen Software Solutions have created this build system primarily
to support our own projects. However it has been made somewhat flexible
to allow others to use it for their own projects without having to make
drastic edits to the build system.

There are a number of principles that we have followed when creating this
build system.

1. Minimal external requirements

Unlike CMake or others like it, you don't have to have much installed for
this system to work. For this to work it has the following requirements:
 - a GNU-like make command
 - support for Bourne shell scripting (bash works fine)
and optionally
 - git, if you want automatically generated version numbers
 - doxygen, if you wish to generate documentation

2. Convension over specification

One of the key goals of our system is that you don't have to edit the
build system every time you want to add files. Instead, you just need to
place them in the correct locations. These are as follows:

Sources - Any .c or .cpp files placed in this directory will be included
    in the building of the library. Any .h or .hpp files in this directory
    will be included when installing the library.

Tests - Any .c or .cpp files placed in this directory will be included
    when building the unit testing application. Note that we assume that
    a suitable main function is included in one of these files.

<underscores> - Any files (specifically any .h or .hpp file) that begins
    with an underscore is assumed to be private and will not be installed
    with the rest of the system.

3. Automatic generation

This sytem will automatically produce the following:

versions via tags - The automatically generated version number is based
    on the most recent git tag in the current branch. This is modified
    by adding the number of checkins since the most recent tag, plus
    the short version of the most recent checkin hash, plus the letter
    'M' if the code has been modified since the last checkin.

_version_internal.h - This file is created to contain a local
    'constexpr const char* versionText'. You can include this file
    in any location where you wish to use the version string. We
    typically create a 'version()' method that returns this string.

_license_internal.h - This file is created to contain a local
    'constexpr const char* licenseText'. This will be a multiline
    character string containing the contents of the LICENSE file.
    You can include this file in any location where you want to
    contain the license text. We typically create a 'license()'
    method that returns this string.

all.h - This file is created to include all the .h and .hpp files for
    this package, excluding any that begin with an underscore. This makes
    it easy for users to use the library without having to list large
    number of includes. In modern compilers with precompiled headers,
    it also help reuse those headers.


OVERRIDING THE DEFAULTS

Overriding Using the Configure Script

By default we use clang on MacOS and gcc on Linux and we install into the
directory /usr/local. You can change this by running the configure script.
Type './configure --help' for a description of what command line options
the configure script will accept.

Overriding Using the Local Config File

If you wish to override some of our default settings, and you don't want to
have to repeatedly run the configure script, you can create a file called
'config.local'. These settings will override those in our common.mk file.
Typically you would not check this file in, however, if you wish to use
our build system for your own projects, you could checkin a file of this
name to override things to suite your project without having to edit our
common.mk file.

Overriding Using the Target Config File

If the file $TARGETDIR/share/config.site exists, it will be included after
the local configuration file and after the configuration script settings
have been made. This allows you to create these settings once and use them
for any of the systems you are building using this build system.


MAKE TARGETS

<no target> - Builds the library.
check       - Builds and runs the tests.
clean       - Cleans out the compiled and auto-generated items.
cleanall    - Also cleans the complete .build directory and all files created
              by running './configure' or 'make docs'.
docs        - Builds the documentation and places it in the docs directory.
hello       - Displays some of the configuration settings. This is most useful
              when you are overriding some of the settings as it can display
              what it believes has been set without running the actual builds.
help        - Displays this help message.
install     - Installs the library and header files into the target directory.
prep        - Builds a number of preparatory items. This is most useful when you
              are building in an IDE (like Xcode) and need to build the auto-
              generated items.


OTHER OPTIONS

Debug Version

By default the system always builds an optimized version of the library. The
main reason it is designed this way is because we do most of our debugging in
Xcode, and we mostly run make when we want to build and install the release
version. You can change this behaviour by adding DEBUG=true to your make
line as shown below:

make clean ; make check DEBUG=true
